Ryan Schremp
ryan@adeptcluster.com

Education

Herzing College

09/2005 - 05/2006

Attended classes towards a degree in Interactive and Graphic arts.

St. Pete College

07/2002

Attended classes towards a degree in Computer Science. Also attended classes towards a CCNA certification.

Santa Fe Community College

07/2000

Attended classes towards a degree in Computer Science.

Experience

Support Programmer | Capital Newspapers/Madison.com

4/2008 - current | Salary: $42,000 Annually

Created web applications using PHP on the Zend MVC framework, MySQL databases, and RedHat based Linux servers (CentOS & Fedora). Provided support for the server environment which consisted of 15 servers. Assisted in forming an upgrade path to bring the servers up to date.

Wrote custom applications in Ruby for various purposes to assist in upkeep and optimization of old code base. Used Javascript and popular Ajax libraries such as Prototype, Prototype-ui, and Jquery to develop gadgets for a redesign of madison.com following Google's Opensocial API spec, and using Apache's shindig server.

Provided support for local organizations whose sites we hosted such as wisconsinhomes.com. Followed an on-call schedule rotation where our emergency phone is forwarded to me one week out of the month to handle emergency site issues from our newsroom after business hours. Was in charge of improving our traffic reporting tool, Omniture.Collected traffic reports each month for presentation to our publications' publishers.

Suggested and implemented the wiki/ticket system Trac to help track issues and keep up to date documentation. Worked with Subversion for version tracking primarily, but lead the move to Git for newer projects.

NOC Intern | Berbee Information Networks

3/2007-4/2008 | Salary: $27,000 Annually 

Handled racking and cabling of clients’ hardware in our datacenter. Worked support phone calls in the NOC for various services including hosted exchange, hosted sharepoint, dial-up internet. Worked internal support calls for all work-issued hardware and software issues. Developed a web application to streamline our check-in process using PHP, MySQL, and MSSQL. Developed a web application that integrates with Berbee’s ticketing software to read NOC staff’s stats on the number of tickets they’ve handled for QA purposes in PHP and MSSQL, Developed a web application that reads work order scheduled times in Berbee’s ticketing software and represents them on a visual timeline using PHP, MSSQL, and MySQL.

Freelance web design

4/2006 - current

Have most recently been using my knowledge of PHP and MySQL to advise on site design and structure. Tested new ideas using current site, then suggested their application to other businesses and small groups to incorporate into their websites.

Residential Sales Advisor | TDS Metrocom

8/2005 – 4/2006 | Salary: $25,000 Anually + Bonuses

Used my knowledge of internet technologies to up sell internet packages and content packages. Advised customers as to what would fit their needs the best. Received 15 certificates of achievement.

Front End Lead | CompUSA

5/2004 – 8/2005 | Salary: $20,000 Anually + Commission

Started as a sales rep and had the highest sales numbers in the store. Promoted to sales lead. Advised customers what they should purchase based on their needs in the way of network equipment, laptop computers, desktop computers, and computer parts. Was put in charge of training some classes and some on-site one-on-one training, as well. Promoted to Front End Lead. Was in charge of all cashiers and making sure customers were treated with care.

Skills

PHP, MySQL, MSSQL, Ruby(beginner), Javascript(beginner), Git, SVN, Windows 9x, ME, NT, 2000, XP, Vista, MacOS 7-current, Linux/Unix administration, HTML, extensive hardware troubleshooting, network troubleshooting and maintenance, laptop repair, desktop repair, training for A+, CCNA, and MCSE.